Welcome to the section challenge.
This has been a long section,
and there was a lot to learn.
Pointers can be tricky
and intimidating.
But here's a real nice challenge
that'll help you understand pointers
in dynamic memory allocation.
So I've given you a bit of a start.
I've written part of the
main for you, and you just
have to write two functions.
You have to write a print function
that should be pretty easy.
And then you have to write an
apply all function that I'll talk
about in a second, and we'll walk
right through this real quick.
Okay, so let's go back up to
the top of the challenge here.
And what I'd like you to do is write
those two functions, but the first
one let's talk about the first one.
Write a c++ function named apply all.
Now this function expects two arrays
of integers and their sizes, and it
dynamically allocates a new array of
integers whose size is the size of
one times the size of the other then.
What you want to do is you want
to loop through the second array
and multiply each element across
each element of the other array.
It sounds complicated, it's not.
Let me walk you through
exactly what I'm talking about.
So here's the function so it expects
two arrays, array1 and array2.
And it expects the
sizes for those two arrays.
You can see right here
array1, array2 5 and 3.
Okay, So let's say
that this is array1.
It's one 1 2 3 4 and 5.
This is array1.
And then we've got array2,
which contains 10 20 and 30.
Okay, So we're passing these two
pointers basically, right, the
array names into that function.
And we're passing along 5, which
is how many elements are in
this array, and 3, which is how
many elements in this array.
Now that function is going to
dynamically allocate an array
that's 15 big, 5 times 3,
and those numbers could vary.
So in this case, what we want
to do is we want to take each
element in array2 and multiply it
across all the elements of array1.
So 10 times 1 is 10.
10 times 2 is 20.
10 times 3 is 30.
We got the 40, and we have a 50.
Okay, then what we want to do
is we want to go through here.
And now go to the next
array element in array2.
So that's 20.
So 20 times 1 is 20.
20 times 2 is 40.
20 times 3 is 60.
20 times 4 is 80.
And finally, 20 times 5 is 100.
Okay, then the last thing is
go through that last number.
So now we're at the 30, and we're
going to go 30 times 1, which is 30.
You get the idea 60 90 120 150.
So this here is the newly created
array that you're going to
create dynamically on the heap.
We want to return the address of this
array, which is the address of this
guy right here from the function.
That function returns the address,
which we store right here in
that pointer variable results
then we pass results to the print
function with a 15, and this is
what we get from this example, let
me clear the screen real quick.
So here's array1.
I call the print function.
I pass array1 into it, and
it's going to display that.
Then I output array2, and then
I call the print function.
I pass in array2 with a 3.
I get that.
I call this function.
It dynamically creates that array.
It does the multiplication.
It stores all the values into the
the dynamically allocated array,
and it returns the address of that
array, and we store it in results.
Then we pass results in
15, and that's what we get.
Okay, so what you need to
do again one more time.
You need to write the apply all
function and the print function.
Now the apply all function
expects array1 and its
size, array2 and its size.
And you could decide what
the types are going to be.
The print function expects
an array and a size.
Now obviously, this guy returns
a pointer to an integer.
This guy doesn't return anything.
So that's roughly your your
function prototypes here.
You just have to decide what
these types here are going to be.
Okay, that's it.
Test your code, and have fun.
If you need to use the
debugger, go for it.
Meet me on the other side
of the challenge, and
I'll show you my solution.